 LITERATURE SURVEY
 Real-Time River Water Quality Monitoring and Control System
Project Name IOT Based Real-Time River Water Quality
Monitoring and Control System
1. Water quality monitoring system based on Internet of
Things
Author: Chengcheng Zhang, Jian Wu, Jiancheng Liu
Publication: IEEE 2020
Chengcheng et al presents a solution that integrates the
design of STM32 single- chip microcomputer, sensors, WiFi
wireless transmission and remote water quality management
system. It monitors water quality turbidity, pH value,
temperature and uploads the data to the management center
through wireless communication.
2. IoT Based Real-time River Water Quality Monitoring
System
Author: Mohammad Salah Uddin Chowdurya, Talha Bin
Emran b, Subhasish Ghosha , Abhijit Pathak a, Mohd. Manjur
Alama, Nurul Absar a, Karl Andersson c, Mohammad Shahadat
Hossain d
Publication: Science Direct 2019
Mohammad et al proposed a manual method for sensorbased water quality monitoring system with high frequency,
high mobility, and low power. Here the data collected at the site
can be displayed in a visual format on a server PC with the help
of Spark streaming analysis through Spark MLlib, Deep
learning neural network models, Belief Rule Based (BRB)
system and is also compared with standard value.
3. Efficient Cloud Based Real Time Water Quality Monitoring
System Using Internet Of Things
Author: M.Usha Rani, Dr.R.Alageswaran, Sathish Kumar A
Publication: JASC: Journal of Applied Science and
Computations(2018)
M.Usha Rani et al proposes water sampling system with
required sensor. Whenever the water level in the lakes or ponds
reaches the lower/upper level it is identified and notification is
sent to the administrator. It can also predict overflow and water
scarcity in future from the past results. The parameters like PH,
calcium, sulphate and nitrate ions that is present in the water is
also identified.
4. Water Quality Monitoring System Using IOT
Author: Dr. Nageswara Rao Moparthi, Ch. Mukesh, Dr. P.
Vidya Sagar
Publication: IEEE 2018
Dr. Nageswara Rao Moparthi et al implements Water
Quality Monitoring System for municipal water tanks and
drinking water reservoirs using an Arduino board and GSM
module. This module can be easily implemented when a
wireless oxygen sensor is used.
5. Real-Time Water Quality Monitoring System
Author: Jyotirmaya Ijaradar1, Subhasish- Chatterjee
Publication:International Research Journal of Engineering and
Technology (IRJET) (2018)
Jyotirmaya et al proposed real-time water quality
monitoring system for water health at residential places. It
measure various chemical and physical properties of water like
pH, temperature and particle density of water using sensors and
send the data to cloud and trigger an alarm when discrepancies
are found in water quality.